# Introduction

Welcome to the MBEE Flight Manual. This document is intended to be an all 
encompassing user manual for the Model-Based Engineering Environment (MBEE). 
Below are summaries of the sections in this document:

**Section 0.0: Introduction** (This section) begins by providing an overview of
the Flight Manual. Following this, contains introductory material describing 
what MBEE is, what it does, and how it can be used to establish a collaborative, 
well-integrated modeling environment for multidisciplinary engineering 
organizations.

**Section 1.0: Getting Started** provides details on installing and running 
MBEE. If you are reading the Flight Manual on an MBEE instance that you set up,
you can safely skip this section. Section 1.0  goes over MBEE basics to get
started working with MBEE, but refers to later sections for more complex uses.

**Section 2.0: Using MBEE** is still a work in progress, as well as the MBEE UI. 
This will provide some basic information, but has deliberately been a low-priority 
documentation item due to the rapidly changing UI during these early development stages.

**Section 3.0: For System Modelers**  is a section dedicated to uses and 
documentation for system modelers. As MBEE is first and foremost a modeling 
tool, Section 3.0 extends the "Using MBEE" content in a format that provides a 
focus specific to system modeling. This section also provides information on
connecting your system model to MBEE.

**Section 4.0: Integrations** discusses API-based integrations and details the 
various ways data can be integrated and exchanged with MBEE. This section 
covers the MBEE API in some detail through examples and provides a tutorial on 
building an API-based integration for MBEE. This API-based approach allows 
service-based integrations to be used to grow the environment in a horizontal 
and distributed architecture.

**Section 5.0: Plugins** provides detailed information on plugins. While plugins
are a type of integration, they are fundamentally different from 
API-based integrations with respect to their overall architecture, their 
performance capabilities, and their impact on the MBEE security posture. Due to 
the unique nature of plugins, they are given their own section in this document. 

Plugins are a server-side mechanism extending the capabilities of MBEE and 
providing high-performance ways of integrating data into MBEE that differs from 
the API-based approach. Plugins grow the monolithic core of MBEE to extend the 
capability of the core framework.

**Section 6.0: Core Framework** details the inner workings of the MBEE Core 
Framework (MCF). It is written by developers for developers. This section is written 
for those who want to modify the core framework itself. This may be done for a 
variety of reasons including adding a new authentication module, modifying 
views or routes, extending data models, and much more. MCF was built to be open 
source and was designed with this degree of extensibility in mind. 

If you're not a developer and/or don't want to dive into the inner workings of
the MBEE Core Framework, Section 6.0 can safely be skipped.

**Appendix A: System Administration Guide** provides information specifically
for system administrators. If you plan to administer MBEE and have gone over
the basics of Section 1.0, you may want to skip straight to this appendix. This
section provides information on defining or swapping out authentication modules,
advanced MBEE configuration, using MBEE with Docker, and much more.

**Appendix B: Migrations** provides information on database migrations. This 
mostly applies to system administrators but could have impacts to project data
if the database schema changes are significantly different.

**Reference: API Doc** is a reference to all of the MBEE API documentation. 
The API documentation via MBEE at the [/doc/api](/doc/api) route.

**Reference: JSDoc** provides detailed documentation of the JavaScript modules
in the MBEE Core Framework. This may be useful to those interested in modifying
the Core Framework or to those developing plugins, since plugins can leverage 
the Core Framework's underlying JavaScript modules.

## About MBEE

The Model-Based Engineering Environment (MBEE) is a modeling collaboration tool
that integrates system models with multidisciplinary engineering data to enable
the system model to be a single-source of truth for project data. It makes model
data more accessible via a web-based user interface (UI) for ease of use across
disciplines and skill sets within an organization. This web-based interface
provides a mechanism for team members to interact with system model data without 
needing to be a systems modeler themselves.
                                               
The goal of MBEE is to better communicate data across engineering organizations
by implementing the core goals of model-based systems engineering through
software tools. MBEE decreases ambiguity by making the concept of single-source 
of truth more achievable through its RESTful API, extensible plugins, and
distributed services.

The core component of MBEE is the **MBEE Core Framework (MCF)**. This framework 
implements the core capabilities of MBEE such as model management, RESTful API
endpoints, plugin management, UI framework and more. This monolithic core 
provides a centralized ecosystem for connecting distributed microservices that 
are used to share inter-model data.

**Plugins** can be used to extend the capabilities of the MCF by adding new API
endpoints, creating new views and UI components, and developing new ways of 
interacting with model data. This concept is key to the MBEE's core design 
objective of providing a platform that can be domain-generic and easily 
extensible.

**Services**, **microservices**, **desktop clients**, and other **API-based 
integrations** can be used outside of the core MBEE framework to connect
external systems and multidisciplinary models to exchange and integrate data.

This approach allows distributed services to be used to interact with external 
systems and integrate data from external models into MBEE. These services can
be cloud-based microservices, monolithic enterprise services, desktop clients,
or any number of other clients that can access a RESTful HTTP API.
