# Getting Started

## Prerequisites

**Node.js**
MBEE is designed so that the only dependency to get started is Node.js and NPM.
NPM comes with Node.js, all you need to do is make sure you can install packages
with NPM and you can get started. See [nodejs.org](https://nodejs.org/en/)
for information on Node.js.

**MongoDB**
You'll also need an instance of MongoDB. If you don't have a database already
set up, please see the [MongoDB Installation Tutorial](https://docs.mongodb.com/manual/installation/#tutorial-installation)
and the [MongoDB Getting Started Guide](https://docs.mongodb.com/manual/tutorial/getting-started/)
for up-to-date documentation on MongoDB.

**Source Code**

1. Clone the MBEE code by running: `git clone https://github.com/lmco/mbee.git`. 
2. Enter the directory with `cd mbee`.

## Build and Run

Use the following commands to build the MBEE Core Framework:

1. Install dependencies and build: `npm install`
2. Run: `npm start`

MBEE should now be running on the port specified in the config. It also prints 
the port number to the console. By default it uses port 9080. Browse to 
`http://localhost:9080` in a web browser to view the MBEE web interface.

## Basic Configuration

MBEE stores all it's configuration information in the `config` directory. By
default, it a file called `default.cfg`, but that can be changed by setting the
`MBEE_ENV` environment variable. 

The config file is a JSON-like file that stores the application configuration.
The core framework is designed to be largely parameterized by this config file. 
For a more detailed explanation of the config file, see the "Core Framework" 
and "Appendix A: System Administration" sections of this manual.

To get started, edit the [default.cfg](config/default.cfg) to match 
the current environment. If the database is running on `localhost`,
no changes to the config should be required to get started.

### Modular Authentication
MBEE supports modular authentication strategies. These authentication modules
have well defined interfaces that can be dynamically replaced. This allows 
administrators and developers to write a custom authentication modules to 
accommodate the needs of their organization without having to make major changes
to the core framework. The authentication module can be specified in the config 
file in the `auth.strategy` field.

By default, MBEE uses a local authentication strategy that authenticates users 
against information stored in MongoDB (as opposed to relying on some remote
service such as LDAP). 

To get started using local authentication, no configuration changes are 
required.

### Database
The `db` section of the config can be used to tell MBEE how to connect to the 
database. If the database is being run on an external server, requires a 
username and password, or uses SSL, these options can be specified in the 
config file. See the `config/example.cfg` file in the source code and/or the 
"Core Framework" and "Appendix A: System Administration Guide" sections of this
manual for more information.

### HTTP/HTTPS
The `server` section of the config allows HTTP and HTTPS to be configured. This 
section allows ports to be specified, HTTPS to be enabled, and SSL certificates
to be used.

### Admin
The default admin credentials can be specified in the `server` section of the 
config file in the `defaultAdminUsername` and `defaultAdminPassword` fields.
The default admin is only created if no other administrators exist. 

This is useful later when additional users are created and given admin 
permissions. Once additional admins exist, the default admin user can be removed
and will not be re-created unless all other admins are removed.

## Advanced Configuration

For more advanced configuration options, see the `/config/example.cfg` file in 
the MBEE source code or **Appendix A: System Administration Guide**.


## MBEE Basics
Navigate to `http://localhost:9080` (or to the route matching your 
configuration) to view the MBEE web interface. This will initially redirect to
the `/login` route to prompt you to log in. Log in with your default admin 
credentials. 

The home page provides options for viewing your organizations and your projects.
A model is stored in a project. Organizations provide a way of grouping projects
together.

By default, all users belong to the *default* organization (though the name of
this organization is configurable). New organizations can be created by MBEE 
administrators.




