# Using MBEE

MBEE provides a platform for modeling that can be accessed through a range of
tools that interface with MBEE's RESTful API. In addition to these external
tools, MBEE provides a web-based UI for interacting with models. This section
of the MBEE Flight Manual focuses on using MBEE and provides an introduction
to the web interface.

To learn more about integrating a SysML model with MBEE, see
section `3.0 For System Modelers`, which details the use of MBEE from a system
modeling perspective.

## Prerequisites

#### Node.js
MBEE is designed so that the only dependency to get started is Node.js and NPM.
NPM comes with Node.js; all you need to do is make sure you can install packages
with NPM and you can get started. See [nodejs.org](https://nodejs.org/en/)
for information on Node.js.

#### Database
You will also need an instance of a document based database. Currently, DynamoDB 
and MongoDB (with Mongoose) are supported though MongoDB is the preferred database.
MBEE supports plug-n-play with different databases as long as a database 
strategy has been defined. To view more information on the database abstraction 
layer and how to configure existing strategies, please visit `Appendix C Database
Configuration`.

#### Source Code
1. Clone the MBEE code by running: `git clone https://github.com/lmco/mbee.git`.
2. Enter the directory with `cd mbee`.

## Build and Run
Use the following commands to build the MBEE Core Framework:

1. Install dependencies and build: `npm install`
2. Run: `node mbee start`

MBEE should now be running on the port specified in the config. It also prints
the port number to the console. By default it uses port 9080. Browse to
`http://localhost:9080` in a web browser to view the MBEE web interface.

## Accessing MBEE
When you navigate to MBEE, you will initially be redirected to the `/login`
page, where you can log in with your credentials. If you have not yet been given
access to MBEE, contact your system administrator.

Once you log in, you can view the home page which provides options for viewing
your organizations and your projects. Organizations provide a way of grouping 
projects together, and projects store your model.

## Organizations and Projects
By default, all users belong to the *default* organization (however, the name of
this organization is configurable) and only MBEE administrators can create new
organizations. If you need an organization created, contact your system
administrator.

Projects can be created by system administrators and users with `write` access
on the specific organization. If you need a project created and do not have the
proper permissions, you can contact your system administrator or organization
administrator to get those permissions.

## Branches
On every project, users can create branches to represent different versions of
the project. By default, every project is created with a master branch, off of
which additional branches can be created. Any user with `write` access to a project
can create a branch on that project. Branches may also be created as `tags`, which
function as read-only snapshots of the source branch at a particular moment in time.

## Permissions and Access
Organizations and projects each have their own permissions management.
Users can be given one of three permission levels on an organization or
project: `read`, `write`, or `admin`. These permissions are ordered. This means
that a user with *write* permissions can do anything a user with *read*
permissions can do, and then some. An *admin* can do anything a user with
*write* permissions can do, and then some. Branches do not have any further
layers of permissions. A user with a particular level of access to a project
will have that same access to every branch on the project.

A brief summary of permissions is as follows:

**Organization**
- `read`: User can read the organization and its contents. User can see that
  projects exist, and can view any projects with a visibility of `internal`.
- `write`: User can add content to the organization (i.e. create projects), but
  cannot modify the organization itself.
- `admin`: User can administer the organization. They can add/remove users,
  update the organization name, etc.

**Project**
- `read`: User can read project contents. User can view the model but cannot
  make any changes or additions to it.
- `write`: User can add/update project content and can modify/update the model.
  User can also delete elements.
- `admin`: User can administer the project. They can add/remove users,
  update the project name, etc.

Note: When a user is added to a project, they are also added to the
organization. If the user is already a member of the organization, their
permissions are unaffected. If they were not yet a member of the organization,
they are given *read* permissions.

## Model Management
From the home page, you can browse your organizations and projects. Once you've
navigated to an organization or project page, you will see a menu on the left-hand
side of the page. This provides various pages where you can view users and
edit organization or project information (if you are an admin). On the project page,
you can browse the element tree and search for elements using a text-based
search.

In the element tree, you can select any element to view more detailed
information about it. If you have at least write permissions, you will also be
able to edit or delete the element in this view. Given that you have
at least write permissions, you will also be able to create new elements by
selecting the "Add Element" button in the top right corner of the screen.

By default every project has four elements created from the start. These
elements cannot be deleted and cannot be moved. These elements include the
root `model` element, `__mbee__` package, the `undefined` element, and the
`holding_bin`. These elements all have a specific purpose, which is documented
further in the following section "3.0 For System Modelers".
