# Using MBEE

MBEE provides a platform for modeling that can be accessed through a range of
tools that interface with MBEE's RESTful API. In addition to these external 
tools, MBEE provides a web-based UI for interacting with models. This section
of the MBEE Flight Manual focuses on using MBEE and provides an introduction
to the web interface.

To learn more about integrating a SysML model with MBEE, see
Section 3.0, which details the use of MBEE from a system modeling perspective.

## Accessing MBEE
When you navigate to MBEE, you will initially redirected to the `/login` page. 
Log in with your credentials. If you have not yet been given access to MBEE,
contact your system administrator. 

Once you log in, you can view the home page, which provides options for viewing 
your organizations and your projects. A model is stored within in a project. 
Organizations provide a way of grouping projects together.

## Organizations and Projects

By default, all users belong to the *default* organization (though the name of
this organization is configurable). New organizations can be created by MBEE 
administrators only. If you need an organization created, contact your system
administrator.

## Permissions and Access

Organizations and projects each have their own permissions management. 
Users can be given one of three permission levels on an organization or
project: `read`, `write`, or `admin`. These permissions are ordered. This means
 that a user with *write* permissions can do anything a user with *read* 
 permissions can do and then some. An *admin* can do anything a user with 
 *write* permissions can do and then some.
 
 A brief summary of permissions is as follows:

**Organization**
- `read`: User can read the organization and it's contents.
- `write`: User can add content to the organization (i.e. create projects), but
cannot modify the organization itself.
- `admin`: User can administer the organization. They can add/remove users, 
update the organization name, etc.

**Project**
- `read`: User can read project contents. 
- `write`: User can add/update project content. This user can modify/update the
model/ 
- `admin`: User can administer the project. They can add/remove users, 
update the project name, etc.

Note: When a user is added to a project, they are also added to the 
organization. If the user is already a member of the organization, their 
permissions are unaffected. If they were not yet a member of the organization,
they are given *read* permissions.

## Model Management

This section covers interacting with a model via the web UI. Since the UI
is currently in early stages of development and is rapidly changing, we will
keep this section brief.

From the home page, you can browse your organizations and projects. Once you've
navigated to an organization or project page, you will see a menu on the left-hand 
side of the page. This provides various pages where you can view users, and
edit organization or project information, if you are an admin. On the project page,
you can view the project model elements and browse the element tree.
