# For Developers

## Prerequisites

**Node.js**
MBEE is designed so that the only dependency to get started is Node.js and NPM.
NPM comes with Node.js; all you need to do is make sure you can install packages
with NPM and you can get started. See [nodejs.org](https://nodejs.org/en/)
for information on Node.js.

**Database**
You will also need an instance of a document based database. MongoDB is the
preferred and only currently supported database, but MBEE does support 
plug-n-play with different databases, as long as a database strategy has been
defined. To view more information on the database abstraction layer and
how to configure existing strategies, please visit `Appendix C Database
Configuration`.

**Source Code**
1. Clone the MBEE code by running: `git clone https://github.com/lmco/mbee.git`.
2. Enter the directory with `cd mbee`.

## Build and Run
Use the following commands to build the MBEE Core Framework:

1. Install dependencies and build: `npm install`
2. Run: `npm start`

MBEE should now be running on the port specified in the config. It also prints
the port number to the console. By default it uses port 9080. Browse to
`http://localhost:9080` in a web browser to view the MBEE web interface.

## Basic Configuration
MBEE stores all its configuration information in the `config` directory. By
default, it uses a file called `default.cfg`, but that can be changed by setting
the `MBEE_ENV` environment variable. Ex: `MBEE_ENV=production node mbee start`.

The config file is a JSON-like file that stores the application configuration.
The core framework is designed to be largely parameterized by this config file.
For a more detailed explanation of the config file, see the "6.0 Core Framework"
and "Appendix A: System Administration" sections of this manual.

To get started, edit the `default.cfg` to match the current environment. If the
database is running on `localhost`, no changes to the config should be required
to get started.

### Modular Authentication
MBEE supports modular authentication strategies. These authentication modules
have well defined interfaces that can be dynamically replaced. This allows
administrators and developers to write custom authentication modules to
accommodate the needs of their organization without having to make major changes
to the core framework. The authentication module can be specified in the config
file in the `auth.strategy` field.

By default, MBEE uses a local authentication strategy that authenticates users
against information stored in the database (as opposed to relying on some remote
service such as LDAP). To get started using local authentication, no
configuration changes are required.

For more information about modular authentication, see the "Appendix A: System
Administration" section of the manual.

### Database
The `db` section of the config can be used to tell MBEE how to connect to the
database. If the database is being run on an external server, requires a
username and password, or uses SSL, these options can be specified in the
config file. See the `config/example.cfg` file in the source code for more
information.

### HTTP/HTTPS
The `server` section of the config allows HTTP and HTTPS to be configured. This
section allows ports to be specified, HTTPS to be enabled, and SSL certificates
to be used.

### Admin
The default admin credentials can be specified in the `server` section of the
config file in the `defaultAdminUsername` and `defaultAdminPassword` fields.
The default admin is only created if no other administrators exist.

The default can be used to create additional users and provide them with admin
permissions. Once additional admins exist, the default admin user can be removed
and will not be re-created unless all other admins are removed.

## Advanced Configuration

For more advanced configuration options, see the `/config/example.cfg` file in
the MBEE source code or **Appendix A: System Administration Guide**.

## MBEE Basics
Navigate to `http://localhost:9080` (or to the route matching your
configuration) to view the MBEE web interface. This will initially redirect to
the `/login` route to prompt you to log in. Log in with your default admin
credentials.

The home page provides options for viewing your organizations and your projects.
Organizations provide a way of grouping projects together, and projects store
your model. By default, all users belong to the *default* organization (however,
the name of this organization is configurable) and only MBEE administrators can
create new organizations. 
