# For System Modelers

Integrating system models into MBEE is currently in work and still rapidly
changing. This section will briefly detail the current approach of integrating
system models with MBEE.

## Default Elements

When every project in MBEE is created, there are 4 elements created along with
it. These elements cannot be deleted or moved, and are designed for specific
purposes. Those elements, the root `model` element, `__mbee__` package, 
`undefined` element, and `holding_bin`, are documented below.

#### model

The `model` element is designed to be the root element of every model. The model
element has an id of `model` and name of `Model` (which can be modified).
Whenever an element is created which does not specify a parent, that element
gets placed under the root model element. From there, a user has the ability to
move that element wherever they desire.

#### \_\_mbee\_\_

The `__mbee__` package is designed to hold all elements which are not part of
the main model. For example, if the modeler wishes to store some arbitrary
information in the MBEE project, but does not desire to place it in their model,
they can add an element and store it in the `__mbee__` package. The `__mbee__`
package also contains the `undefined` element and `holding_bin`.

#### undefined

The `undefined` element was designed to be a placeholder for relationships whose
sources/targets do not yet exist or have not been defined. If relationships like
these exist, it is recommended that the source or target is set to the
`undefined` element, since both a source and target are required if creating a
relationship. Once the actual source or target is created/defined, the
relationship element can be updated and can point to the new source/target.

#### holding_bin

The `holding_bin` was designed to be a temporary package to store elements whose
parents have not yet been created or defined. Similar to the `undefined`
element, once a parent has been defined or created, a user can simply move that
element from the `holding_bin` to its parent. Please note, if a parent is not
provided when creating an element, it is automatically stored under the root
`model` element, not the `holding_bin`. Because of this, you must explicitly
specify the `holding_bin` as the parent if you wish to use it.

## Modeling in MCF

The possibility to model in MCF, without the connection of the modeling tools, has been 
made easier through the user interface (UI). The project home page on the UI has the
ability to display the model tree based on how the system modeler has defined it. Through
the tree, the user can create elements based off of types in the element data. The type 
changes the icon displayed next to that element. The currently supported element types in
the UI are:

* Package / package / uml:Package
* Diagram / diagram / uml:Diagram
* Association / association / uml:Association
* Relationship / relationship
* Edge / edge
* uml:Slot
* uml:Property
* Document
* View

Do note that eventually more types will be supported in the UI, however these are the only as
of this release. The UI also allows easier creation of relationships to elements in different 
projects. MCF has the ability to have a source or target pointing to elements in projects that 
are at a visibility of internal, and are in the same organization or the default organization. 
On the element edit page, the system modeler has the ability to choose one of those different 
projects to select an element to set for a source or target.
