# Integrations

A core capability of MBEE is the ability to integrate model data from multiple
sources into a single cohesive model and to exchange data between models. This
can be achieved through a few different mechanisms, the most noteworthy of
which is the MBEE Core Framework's (MCF) RESTful API.

Another way of integrating data with MBEE is through plugins that extend the
core framework. Since the architecture of plugins differ fundamentally from API
based integrations, plugins are given their own section ("5.0 Plugins") in this
Flight Manual.

## The MBEE REST API

The API provides endpoints for creating, retrieving, updating, replacing, and
deleting objects within MBEE such as users, organizations, projects, and
model elements. The API is documented using [Swagger](https://swagger.io/)
inline documentation in the MCF source code. This documentation is then
generated into a viewable format accessible at the [`/doc/api`](/doc/api) route
within MBEE or by clicking on *Documentation* in the navigation bar and
selecting *API Documentation*.

The API documentation is broken down into the following sections:

- General
- Organizations
- Projects
- Elements
- Users

The **General** section documents API endpoints which are used for interacting
with MBEE rather than a specific object type within MBEE. This includes a test
route that is useful for determining when the API is up, a route providing
version information, and a route for logging into MBEE and retrieving an
authentication token.

The remaining sections document the API endpoints used for CRUD (Create,
Retrieve, Update, Delete) operations on organizations, projects, elements and
users. Each section documents the available singular and batch endpoints, the
expected parameters, and the available options a user can provide.

## Sample API Calls

Since MBEE was designed with integrations in mind, some sample API calls have
been provided to demonstrate how to call the API functions, and what to expect
in return. Please see tutorials 1-3 in the flight manual for some examples of
authentication, organization/project management, and model management through
the API.



