# Plugins

As an alternative to writing integrations that interface with MBEE via the REST
API, the MBEE Core Framework (MCF) supports plugins. Plugins are server-side
extensions of the MCF that allow integrations to add new API endpoints, create
additional views, and directly interface with MBEE data using the modules built
in to the the core framework.

Because plugins are server-side and execute code on the MBEE server, they
introduce additional security risks that must be carefully evaluated before
being run. As extensions of the Core Framework, plugins can introduce
any vulnerability that could exist in the core framework such as cross-site
scripting, authentication bypass, data exposure, and more. It is critical that
these risks be mitigated by vetting plugins with the same care and scrutiny that
is used to assess the core framework.

As server-side extensions of the Core Framework, plugins must also be written in
Node.js. The only interface required of a plugin is that the plugin's main file
(i.e. the file described by the *main* field in the plugin's package.json file)
must export an Express.js application.


## Example: A Hello World Plugin

Perhaps the simplest way to describe how to create a plugin is to simply walk
through an example. This section walks through creating a simple plugin that
adds a single route that returns the string "Hello World!"

First, create an empty directory for your plugin. Inside that directory, run
`npm init` and enter the information for your plugin. The most important field
is the *entry point* or *main* script. This is what MBEE looks for to know how
to execute your plugin.

Now create a new file that matches the name you provided as the entry point. The
default entry point name for NPM is `index.js`, so that's what we'll use here.

Now in your `index.js` file, add the following code:

```javascript
// Requires express module
const express = require('express');

// Instantiates an express application
const app = express();

// Define our "Hello World" route
app.get('/', function(req, res){
  res.send('Hello world!')
});

// Export/expose the app
module.exports = app;
```

To install plugins on an MBEE instance, the plugin must be specified in the
MBEE config file. This information is then used by MBEE to load plugins when the
server is started.

To specify a plugin, a "plugins" section must be provided within the "server"
section of the config. To add your plugin to your MBEE config, simply add it as an object to the
plugins section:

```json
{
  "server": {
     "plugins": {
        "enabled": true,
        "plugins": {
          "hello-plugin": {
            "name": "hello-plugin",
            "source": "/path/to/your/plugin/directory",
            "title": "Hello World"
          }
        }
     }
  }
}
```
You also need to set the *enabled* field to `true` to enable plugins. Once
configured, start up your MBEE server and browse to `/plugins/hello-plugin`.

You should see a response of "Hello World".


## Installing Plugins and Configuration
In the `server.plugins` section, a list of plugins can be specified.
Each plugin object defines a plugin and must include the following
key-value pairs.

```json
{
  "plugin-name": {
    "title": "Hello World",
    "name": "hello-plugin",
    "source": "https://github.com/lmco/mbee-plugins-hello-world.git"
  }
}
```

The `title` field defines a user-friendly title for the plugin.

The `name` field uniquely identifies the plugin (i.e. two plugins cannot be
defined with the same name). The name defines the plugin's namespace. It should
only contain lowercase letters and numbers (no whitespace or special
characters should be used).  The `name` field should match the name of the
plugin object.

When a plugin gets loaded into the MCF, it is used by MCF within a namespace.
MCF clones the plugin into a directory based on the name and namespaces the
plugin's routes under `/plugins/<name>`. This means that if a plugin named
"myplugin" defines a route called `/hello`, that route will be loaded into the
MCF as `/plugins/myplugin/hello`. This provides each plugin with their own unique
namespace so developers can define routes and APIs without worrying about
overlap.

The `source` field tells the MCF where to get the plugin. If the source begins
with `./` or `/` it knows to get the plugin from the local filesystem. If the
source is a URL ending in `.git`, the plugin is cloned from a Git repository.
SSH can  also be used for Git repositories (see `deployKey` below). Finally,
if a URL is provided that ends in `.zip`, `.gz`, or `.tar.gz`, the MCF will
download and unzip the source code from the corresponding archive.

An SSH key can be specified with the `deployKey` field. This field should
contain a path to the Git deploy key (relative to the MBEE root directory).

Plugins can also run tests upon startup of the server. This can be specified
with the `testOnStartup` field. Plugin testing is explained in further detail
below.

Plugins can also define their own configuration variables inside the MBEE
config. Inside the `server.plugins` section, key/value pairs can be added a key
with the same name as the plugin. For example if the helloworld plugin had
configuration options, the section `server.plugins.helloworld` could be added to
the config and inside that, the configuration options could be specified.

The example below shows a few different ways to specify plugins.

```json
{
  "server": {
    "plugins": {
      "enabled": true,
      "plugins": {
        "myplugin1": {
          "title": "My Plugin 1",
          "name": "myplugin1",
          "source": "https://example.com/my-plugin-1-repo.git",
          "key": "some configuration option",
          "testOnStartup": true
        },
        "myplugin2": {
          "title": "My Plugin 2",
          "name": "myplugin2",
          "source": "git@example.com:my-plugin-2-repo.git",
          "deployKey": "./keys/my-plugin-2-deploy-key.key"
        },
        "myplugin3": {
          "title": "My Plugin 3",
          "name": "myplugin3",
          "source": "./plugins/myplugin3",
          "testOnStartup": true
        },
        "myplugin4": {
          "title": "My Plugin 4",
          "name": "myplugin4",
          "source": "https://example.com/path/to/my-plugin-4.tar.gz"
        }
      }
    }
  }
}
```

## Building Plugins
When plugins are initially loaded upon startup of the MCF, they will also be built.
This includes running yarn install on the plugins' specified package.json files to
install any additional dependencies that plugin may have, as well as running the
plugins' build scripts, if they exist.

These plugin dependencies are installed in a node_modules directory within the
specific plugin directory. One advantage of this approach is that a plugin may require
a different version of a same dependency that the MCF uses. Having separate directories
allow the MCF and plugin to use different versions of the same package without conflict.

A build script can be specified for several reasons, most notably to generate and/or load
pages and scripts for the UI, as the MCF itself must do.

## Testing Plugins
Much like the core codebase, the MCF supports Mocha.js tests for plugins. In order
for a plugin's tests to be recognized, they must be placed in a directory named `test`
at the root directory of the plugin. They can also reside in subfolders within the
`test` directory, as the MCF performs a recursive search. Note that the MCF will
attempt to run EVERY javascript file found within the `test` directory as a test.

The testing script, discussed further in section 6.0, can take the arguments
`--plugin` `{pluginName}` to run that plugin's tests instead of the normal tests.
Alternatively, the script can also be run with the argument `--plugins` to run the
tests of every installed plugin that includes a `test` directory.

When starting the MCF server and iterating through the installation of every plugin,
there is an option to run plugin-specific tests on each plugin as the final part of
the installation process. If any of the tests fail, the server will exit. This is
specified with the `testOnStartup` field in each plugin object in the config file.

## Plugin Persistance
(New in 2.0.0)

As mentioned before, plugins do not persist in the MCF runtime, when the server
restarts it deletes and re-initializes/builds all plugins. While this works as
a CM and configuration consistant approach it is less than desirable for those who
prefer a faster startup and/or those who are pulling the plugins from a Git repo.
Therefore, in order to allow persistance of plugins a `persistToPath` can be specified
on a per-plugin basis to copy any cloned plugins to another folder.

```json
{
  "server": {
    "plugins": {
      "enabled": true,
      "plugins": {
        "myplugin1": {
          "title": "My Plugin 1",
          "name": "myplugin1",
          "source": "https://example.com/my-plugin-1-repo.git",
          "persistToPath": "./all_plugins"
        }
      }
    }
  }
}
```

    Note: All relative paths specified in `persistToPath` will be sourced from the mcf home
    directory (`/opt/mbee`).

This method is leveraged by the official Dockerfile which would allow a plugin to be cloned
from a git repo and then copied to `./all_plugins` Plugins this folder then can be persisted
via a Docker Volume. Persistance can be achieved by starting up the container, allowing the
server to start up and `clone` the plugins then stopping the service, and amending the config
file to use the local directory.

Plugin Config Before/Cold Start:
```json

"myplugin1": {
  "title": "My Plugin 1",
  "name": "myplugin1",
  "source": "https://example.com/my-plugin-1-repo.git",
  "persistToPath": "./all_plugins"
}
```

Plugin Config After/Hot Start:
```json

"myplugin1": {
  "title": "My Plugin 1",
  "name": "myplugin1",
  "source": "./all_plugins/myplugin1",
  "persistToPath": "false"
}
```
## Synchronous Middleware
Plugins have the option of registering synchronous middleware with the MCF API.
This can be used in cases where a team may wish to modify data before or after it
reaches the controllers, or even integrate with other platforms. For example,
to integrate with an external system such as Teamwork Cloud, one may wish to validate
element CRUD operations against the TWC server. Webhooks could be used to notify
the external server when such an operation occurs. However, because webhooks do not
listen for a response, a failure on the external server would not be communicated to
the MCF, leading to inconsistent data. With synchronous middleware, an operation can
be validated externally first, and then be allowed to proceed. If the operation fails
within the controller, the post-controller middleware can notify the external server.
There are a few API Controller functions that do not have middleware capability; most
notably the `login` and `patchPassword` functions for security reasons.

All permitted API routes are structured as follows:
```
Middleware.pluginPre('exampleFunction'),
APIController.exampleFunction,
Middleware.pluginPost('exampleFunction')
```
In order to take advantage of the middleware capabilities, a plugin must include a
"middleware.js" module in its root directory. This module must export objects with
the names of their target api function and with the keys "pre" and/or "post". The
"pre" and "post" key values must be functions that accept a Express Request and
Response objects as inputs. For example:
```
module.exports.exampleFunction = {
  pre: function(req, res) {
    // Some logic to process data pre-exampleFunction
  },
  post: function(req, res) {
    // Some logic to process data post-exampleFunction
 }
}
```
Any export described in a plugin's middleware.js module that does not follow these
rules is ignored upon installation and causes a warning to be logged to the console.

## Using the Core Framework Modules

The most immediate benefit of extending the MCF through plugins is that plugin
developers can leverage all of the underlying capability and modules of the
Core Framework. There are however some recommended practices which will be
covered in this section.

For a full detailed discussion of the Core Framework and the modules within it,
see the next section of this document, `6.0 Core Framework`. This guide is not
intended to dive into that level of detail, but instead to discuss some best
practices and give a brief introduction to the Core Framework for plugin
developers.

It is also important to understand that as a plugin developer you are extending
the underlying capabilities of the MCF. This means that your code can introduce
vulnerabilities to MBEE the same way any code in the Core Framework can. It is
the responsibility of plugin developers and system administrators to carefully
review plugins before deploying them into production environments.

The MBEE Core Framework (MCF) is build on an MVC (model, view, controller)
architecture and the structure of the source code closely resembles this.
However, the MCF provides a global object that is accessible to all plugins
without requiring any modules. This object is called the `M` object and is
accessible through a global variable called `M`. This object is read-only and
provides a number of useful utilities for plugin developers.

### M.require

The first and most useful is the `M.require` function. This function is a
wrapper around Node's built-in require function that allows import of MBEE
modules without using relative paths. For example, the directory structure of
the MCF looks something like this (roughly):

```
+ /
    + app/
        + controllers/
            + element-controller.js
        + lib/
            + utils.js
        + models/
            + element-model.js
        + views/
    + config/
    + doc/
    + plugins/
    + scripts/
    + test/
    mbee.js
    package.json
```

The `M.require` gives you a mechanism for requiring Core Framework modules
without needing to figure out the relative path of the module and the current
executing directory. `M.require` takes a single string and assumes that path is
relative to the `app` directory.

This means that regardless of your plugin structure, anywhere in your plugin
code you can use `M.require` to load a module. The example below shows the
loading of the element controller.

```javascript
const elementController = M.require('controllers.element-controller');
```

One thing to note about the example above is that we did not use a slash between
`controllers` and `element-controller`. The `M.require` function allows `.` to
be used which will then be replaced with the OS-specific separator
automatically. Slashes may be used, but `.` is preferable.

### M.root

Another useful property on the `M` object is `M.root`. This gives the full path
of the root directory of the MBEE Core Framework. This is useful if you ever
need to load a file or module that is not in the main app directory.

### M.config

The configuration file for MBEE is loaded into the `M` object at startup. This
means that plugins can access the full configuration without having to find
and load the config file. This also allows plugin developers to define new
configuration fields.

Nothing needs to be done to define a new field, simply document what must be
there in your plugin's documentation and look for it on the `M.config` object.

You should however have some mechanism for safely failing if the configuration
item is not found. One way to approach this is to verify that all configuration
items that are needed can be found when the app is defined and throw an error if
the plugin should fail. Plugins are loaded synchronously and errors in the
synchronous loading are easily caught by the MCF. If an error is caught by MCF
during this loading, MCF can safely disable the plugin to avoid unexpected
behavior.

### M.version

The `M.version` property contains a string that specifies the MCF version
number. This is useful if your plugin is only compatible with certain versions
of MBEE.

### M.log

The MCF logger is also provided as part of the `M` object. This logger object is
based on [Winston](https://www.npmjs.com/package/winston). Rather than using
`console.log` statements, plugin developers can use the following functions:

```javascript
M.log.critical('Critical! Something very bad happened!');
M.log.error('Error! Something went wrong.');
M.log.warn('Warning! Something not great happened, but it may be okay.');
M.log.info('This is informational output.');
M.log.verbose('This is for if more detail is needed.');
M.log.debug('This is a debug statement.');
```

### Models and Controllers

The key modules that will be useful to plugin developers are the model and
controller modules. The *models* define the data models for interacting with
the database. The *controllers* provide the business logic on top of the models.
While the models handle and define the data and core objects in MCF, the
controllers implement the behavior for those objects. For that reason, it is
highly recommended that controllers be used, not models, whenever possible and
that models only be used directly when absolutely necessary.

Each of the main data objects in MBEE has a model and a controller. The models
are found in the `app/model` directory and the module name is the name of the
object. For example, the *elements* are defined in the model `element.js`.

Each of these models has a corresponding controller found in the
`app/controllers` directory. These modules are named using the following format:
`<object>-controller.js`. For example, the element controller is defined in a
module named `element-controller.js`.

Most of these controllers provide methods for CRUD (create, read, update,
delete) operations on these objects. For example, the element controller
can be used to find an element with given data:
- ID: `model`
- BRANCH: `master`
- PROJECT: `example`
- ORGANIZATION: `default`

```javascript
const elementController = M.require('controllers.element-controller');
elementController.find(req.user, 'default', 'example', 'master', 'model')
  .then(element => console.log(element.name))
  .catch(err => console.error(err));
```

For more information see section `6.0 Core Framework` of this document or view
the JSDoc documentation by navigating to the [/doc/developers](/doc/developers)
route of MBEE.

### Libraries

The Core Framework provides a collection of libraries in the `app/lib` folder
that provide useful functionality for a variety of MBEE actions including event
messaging, authentication, data validation, and much more.

For more information see section `6.0 Core Framework` of this document or view
the JSDoc documentation by navigating to the [/doc/developers](/doc/developers)
route of MBEE.

### Authentication

Adding authentication to plugin routes is quite simple. Simply import the
`authenticate` function from the `auth` library and use it as middleware on a
route.

For example, to have a simple plugin with an authenticated route, your app may
look like this:

```javascript
// Initialize an express app
const express = require('express');
const app = express();

// Require the authentication module
const {authenticate} = M.require('lib.auth');

// Define an authenticated route
app.get('/', authenticate, (req, res) => res.send('Hello world!'));

// Export the app
module.exports = app;
```

### UI Feature

Adding plugins to the user interface can be done on a project to project basis.
When a plugin has been loaded into MBEE, a user can add custom data to a project
with the following json:

```json
{
  "custom": {
    "integrations": [
      {
        // Integration id
        "name": "<Integration Name>",
        // Display name
        "title": "<Integration Title>",
        // Plugin route
        "url": "<Integration URL>",
        // Plugin icon
        "icon": "<Integration icon>",
        // Boolean for opening in a new tab in browser
        "openNewTab": <true/false>
      }
    ]
  }
}
```

The icon will be a font awesome icon that you can look up at
[FontAwesome](https://fontawesome.com/icons?d=gallery&m=free). The icon and
openNewTab are not required and will be set by default. The default for the openNewTab is false.

### Summary

This tutorial gave a brief introduction to plugins through the development of a
simple "Hello World" plugin. This was not meant to be a particularly robust or
high-quality plugin, but to begin to shed some light on what a plugin can do.

For more in-depth examples, please see tutorial `Tutorial 004 Mass Plugin` in the flight
manual.
