# MBEE Core Framework

## Code Structure

MBEE is built using an MVC (Model/View/Controller) architecture. For those who
are not as familiar with this type of architecture, the code is divided up into
separate models (which house database schemas), controllers (which house code
for interacting with the models), and views (which house code for interacting
with objects created through the models and controllers).

Each primary component of the MBEE architecture has its own model, view and
controller. For example, there is an element model, element controller and
element view.

#### Models

Models handle all data-related logic. In the case of MBEE, the models define
schemas and export them. Models are very similar to classes in normal
object-oriented programming. Models define a data structure which can be used
as a template to create a document. Models can additionally have functions
attached. In the case of the element model, functions such as
`getValidUpdateFields()` and `getValidPopulateFields()` are attached to the
model and can be called on an instance (document) of that model or can be
called using the model directly.

Each model also defines functions for interacting with the database. In 
[db.js](/doc/lib.module_db.html) the functions for defining each schema and
model are defined and documented. Schemas define what each document in the
database should contain, and models create/find/update/delete those documents.
Both classes must be defined in the selected database strategy.

#### Controllers

Controllers interact with the model directly, and define CRUD operations which
get used in the views. Each controller imports its respective model, and uses
that model to manipulate data. Each controller in MBEE defines functions for
finding, creating, replacing, updating and deleting documents from the database.
The controllers perform additional logic to validate provided data.
For example, the element controller performs logic on delete that ensures the
user is not trying to delete the root model element.

#### Artifact Storage
MBEE supports Artifact storage, the ability to store arbitrary binary files.
Artifacts are divided into two separate parts, artifact documents and blobs.
Artifact documents contain metadata such as location, filename, uploading
user data, etc. Artifact blobs are the actual binary data being stored,
such as a text file, SVG, or any arbitrary binary file. Similar to elements,
artifact documents are stored at the branch level. Blobs are stored at the
project level. Thus, blobs are not affected when a branch is cloned.

##### Artifact Documents
Artifact documents store metadata for blobs. A user can search an artifact
document to see where a particular blob is stored using the location field.

It is entirely possible to upload a blob without an associated artifact
document and vice versa; It is possible to create an artifact document
without uploading a blob.

##### Artifact Blobs
MBEE users can upload and download files known as blobs. Blobs are typically
images, text files, SVG, or other multimedia objects. Blobs are file
type agnostic; any arbitrary file type can be stored as a blob. The storage
location depends on the Artifact strategy being used.

##### Artifact Permissions
Artifact document permissions are similar to that of Elements. Users posting
artifact documents must have write access to a project and Users getting artifact
documents must have read access to a project. Blob permissions are the same as
artifact documents.

##### Artifact Strategy
Artifacts support using different strategies, allowing for storage
customization. Is it entirely possible to support storage solutions such as
AWS's s3, Azure Storage, or any kind of third party storage solution.

In order to support third party storage solutions, a custom strategy must be
written to interface with the Artifact Controller. Check out
`artifact/local-strategy.js` to see an example.

Each strategy must implement the following functions: `getBlob()`, `postBlob()`,
`deleteBlob()` and `clear()`.

* `getBlob(artMetaObj)` - Retrieves a single blob.
* `postBlob(artMetaObj)` - Uploads a single blob.
* `deleteBlob(artMetaObj)` - Removes a single blob.
* `clear(artMetaObj)` - Removes multiple blobs.

Functions operate base on provided input object, artMetaObj.

##### Artifact Local Strategy
The base strategy provided is the artifact local strategy. Any blobs uploaded using local
strategy will be stored locally on the MBEE server under `./storage` in the
MBEE root directory.

Within the `./storage` directory is a list of organization folders, where each
folder name is based on the org ID. Each org folder contains a list of project
directories, where folder name is based on project ID. Note that until
artifacts are upload to the org/project, the folder will not be created.

Generally, in the local-strategy, uploaded blobs are stored in a path similar to
the following: `/storage/orgID/projectID/blobName`.

The blob name is the concatenation of the location field and the filename.
Any directory separator in the `location` field, such as `/` or `\`, will
be replace by periods. This replace is based on the running operating system.

For example:
**location** is `user/documents/` and **field** is `myDocument.xdoc`.

The blob name would be `user.documents.myDocument.xdoc`.
This concatenated blob name is only used within the locate strategy for
storage purposes.

Note: Artifact Local Strategy does not support clustering of MBEE. If clustering,
another strategy is required.

#### Views

Views are UI components that directly interact with models and controllers,
usually through an API. In the case of MBEE, the views call API functions which
in turn call controller functions, which use the models to manipulate data.

## The "M" Object

The M object is a global object which is accessible across the entire code base.
It contains valuable information and operations which are easier to attach to
the object, rather than import in every location needed. The M object is created
upon server startup, and is locked from modification immediately, so do not
attempt to change fields or add your own fields. The following information is
provided in the M object and is accessible any place in the root directory
(including plugins).

- **env:** Provides the current running environment (as a string). If no
  environment was specified upon startup, the *default* environment is used.
- **version:** Provides the current version of MBEE. This value can be found in
  the package.json.
- **build:** Provides the build number found in the package.json. If none is
  specified, it defaults to *NO_BUILD_NUMBER*.
- **require():** Provides a simplified function for importing files within the
  */app* directory. This can be used by providing the path within the app
  directory, and separating the directories using dot notation.
  Example for /app/models/element.js:
  `const Element = M.require('models.element');`
- **getModuleName():** Provides a function which returns the module name.
- **root:** Provides a path to the root directory. This can be used to access
  files within the root directory, no matter where that directory is located.
- **config:** Provides an object which contains all key/value pairs from the
  running config.
- **log():** Provides a function for logging information to the console. Can
  also be used to log information and errors to .log files. See the log section
  below for more information.
- **CustomError():** Provides access to the CustomError class. CustomErrors are
  used throughout the code to organize errors. The CustomError constructor
  expects three parameters, the error message, HTTP status code and log level.

## Logger

Built into the global M object is a very useful logger. It has the ability to
print information to the console at different log levels (and colors), as well
as log information to .log files. There are 6 log levels, listed in order from
least important to most important: debug, verbose, info, warn, error, and
critical. If we wanted to log some information to the console, we could
simply do it by calling `M.log.info('Your info here');`.

There are three .log files created by default, each of which contain different
information. The first is `mbee-debug.log`. This file contains anything and
everything which has been logged. The next file is `mbee.log`, which contains
anything that has been logged at or above the level specified in the log.level
section of the running config. The final log file is `mbee-error.log`, which
contains all content logged at the error and critical levels. The names of these
log files are configurable in the "log" section of the config, as is the ability
to colorize the log level in the console. All of the logs are stored in a
directory called *log* at the top of the root directory.

## Lib Directory
Multiple, useful functions have been provided in the `app/lib` directory
which can be used across the code base and in plugins. Each of these files and
their content are documented below.

#### Auth
The `auth.js` file provides multiple functions for authenticating users. This
file is what allows for the multiple authentication modules, and exports a very
useful function `authenticate()`. This function can be used as middleware when
handling routes, and can require a user to be authenticated before accessing
specific route. Please see the end of section "5.0 Plugins" for an example of
using the authenticate function as route middleware.

#### Config Utilities
The `config-utils.js` file provides two functions for dealing with the configuration
file: removeComments() and validate().  The remove comments function removes
comments denoted with the double slash ( // ) in .cfg files and returns a JSON
object, while the validate function checks every field in the config to ensure it
is formatted correctly.

#### Controller Utilities
The `controller-utils.js` file provides several helper functions to the controllers
that streamline model validation.

#### Crypto
The `crypto.js` file provides multiple functions for handling encryption and
decryption. The most valuable functions here are `encrypt()` and `decrypt()`,
which use AES-256 encryption to encrypt and decrypt.

#### Errors
`errors.js` exports the MBEE custom errors. These classes have been designed to
simplify error logging in MBEE. It is recommended to access these classes
through the attached "M" Object. There are many types of custom errors, all
with their own purpose. Depending on which you use, a specific HTTP status code
will be returned in the error is encountered through the API. See the error
types below.

```javascript
// Return 400 Bad Request
const dataError = new M.DataFormatError('This is a DataFormatError');

// Return 401 Unauthorized
const authError = new M.AuthorizationError('This is an AuthorizationError');

// Return 403 Forbidden
const permissionError = new M.PermissionError('This is a PermissionError'); 
const opError = new M.OperationError('This is an OperationError');

// Return 404 Not Found
const findError = new M.NotFoundError('This is a NotFoundError');

// Return 500 Internal Server Error
const serverError = new M.ServerError('This is a ServerError');
const databaseError = new M.DatabaseError('This is a DatabaseError');
```

Each error expects up to two arguments. The first is the error message which
must be a string. The second argument is an optional log level which you wish to
log the error at. If passed it, the error message will automatically be logged
to the console and log files. The options for log level are `debug`, `verbose`,
`info`, `warn`, `error`, and `critical`.

#### Events
`events.js` exports an instance of a global event emitter. This event emitter is
used across the controllers when certain events occur. (users created, orgs
deleted, etc.) If a developer ever wishes to listen to these events (or emit
their own), this event emitter needs to be imported and used.

#### Get Public Data
The `get-public-data.js` exports functions used for parsing data directly from
the database, and returning it in a safe and clean format to the requesting
user. These functions are used in API routes. We recommend using them if
returning orgs, projects, elements or users from API calls.

#### JMI Conversions
The `jmi-conversions.js` exports functions used for converting model data
between different formats. There are three JMI formats, called JMI1, JMI2 and
JMI3. Throughout the code base, these formats are used specifically for
elements.

JMI1 is the simplest format, and the type of format returned by default. This is
an array of objects (generally element objects). This format is useful for
visualization and if the user desires to perform some operation on all elements.
```json
[
  {
    "id": "model",
    "name": "Model",
    "parent": "null",
    "contains": [
      "elem1",
      "elem2",
      "elem3"
    ]
  },
  {
    "id": "elem1",
    "name": "Element 1",
    "parent": "model"
  },
  {
    "id": "elem2",
    "name": "Element 2",
    "parent": "model"
  },
  {
    "id": "elem3",
    "name": "Element 3",
    "parent": "elem1"
  }
]
```
JMI2 is a JSON object. Inside, for every item, there is a key/value pair where
the key is some unique identifier (generally the id) and the value is the
object (generally the element object). This format is useful for look-ups by
unique identifier as they are much faster than in arrays.
```json
{
  "model":
  {
    "name": "Model",
    "parent": "null",
    "contains": [
      "elem1",
      "elem2",
      "elem3"
    ]
  },
  "elem1":
  {
    "id": "elem1",
    "name": "Element 1",
    "parent": "model"
  },
  "elem2":
  {
    "id": "elem2",
    "name": "Element 2",
    "parent": "model"
  },
  "elem3":
  {
    "id": "elem3",
    "name": "Element 3",
    "parent": "elem1"
  }
}
```
JMI3 is a combination of JMI2 and JMI1. JMI3 is an object, where the keys are
unique identifiers similar to JMI2. Where it differs is any child elements
are stored in their parents `contains` field. This creates a tree like structure
where the top level is the root, and the entire tree is stored in that objects
"contains" field. An example is below:

```json
{
  "model":
  {
    "name": "Model",
    "id": "model",
    "parent": "null",
    "contains":
    {
      "elem1":
      {
        "name": "Element 1",
        "id": "elem1",
        "parent": "model",
        "contains":
        {
          "elem3":
          {
            "name": "Element 3",
            "id": "elem3",
            "parent": "elem1",
            "contains": {}
          }
        }
      },
      "elem2":
      {
        "name": "Element 2",
        "id": "elem2",
        "parent": "model",
        "contains": {}
      }
    }
  }
}
```

#### Logger
The `logger.js` file exports the logger which is attached to the "M" object.
Similar to the CustomError class, it is recommended you use the logger directly
through the "M" object. Ex: `const err = M.log.warn('This is a warning');`

#### Middleware
The `middleware.js` file provides functions which can be used as middleware when
handling routes. These functions are used internally in the API routes
specifically to log the route and IP.

#### Migrate
`migrate.js` provides logic for handling and running database migrations. As
plugin developers, you will not need to touch this file.

#### Permissions
`permissions.js` provides functions for checking if users have permissions 
to perform a certain action.

#### Sanitization
`sanitization.js` provides functions to sanitize against potentially malicious
user input. The two most used functions, `db()` and `html()`, are used to
sanitize database queries and rendered UI content respectively.

#### Startup
`startup.js` is run when the server is started, and prints the MBEE logo to the
console.

#### Test Utils
`test-utils.js` is a very useful file which provides functions used to
simplify unit testing. The file includes functions which create/delete test organizations, 
projects, admins and non-admins. These functions are used throughout the tests
in the `before()` and `after()` functions.

#### Utils
`utils.js` is the most used library across the code base. This file provides a
large number of random utility functions that can save time and lines of code.
The most used functions are listed below

- createID(...args)
  - Creates a concatenated ID which gets stored in the database. For example,
  the element ID which is actually stored in the database is a concatenation of
  the org, project, branch and element ID. This function takes any number of
  string arguments and concatenates them.
- parseID(id)
  - Splits the concatenated ID by its delimiter (:) and returns an array of ids.
    (Ex. `org:proj:branch:elem` ->  `['org', 'proj', 'branch', 'elem']`)
- toTitleCase(string)
  - Capitalizes the first letter of the string.
  
#### Validators
`validators.js` provides a list of object validators. The validators can be
changed in the configuration to allow for stricter or laxer rules. These
validators are used when creating objects (orgs, projects, etc..) and if the
validation is not passed, the object cannot be created.

## Testing

#### Test Framework Overview

Tests will be executed in numeric order. To do this effectively, the following
naming conventions are used to number tests:

All tests will begin with a three digit number and will end with a letter. The
first two digits denote its category

- **0xx:** Reserved for initialization tasks. These should be used for any
  database initialization or other tasks to be done before all tests.
- **1xx:** Tests the test framework and basic infrastructure. These
  should be used to identify basic configuration issues like Mocha or Chai or
  to identify simple errors such as missing files.
- **2xx:** These should be used for unit tests of libraries and helpers. It can
  also be used for other basic tests that have few or no dependencies.
- **3xx:** These should be used for unit tests of data models.
- **4xx:** These should be used for controller tests.
- **5xx:** These should be used to test the API via mock requests. These tests
  do not require the server to be running.
- **6xx:** These should be used for API tests while running the MBEE server.
- **7xx:** These should be used for UI tests while running the MBEE server.
- **8xx:** These should be used for integration and system level tests.
- **9xx:** Reserved for wrap-up tasks to be used in conjunction
  with *0xx* initialization tasks.

The letter following the test number denotes which aspect of the module is being
tested. Currently, the trailing letters are only applied to the 3xx-6xx tests.

- **XXXa:** These tests ensure core functionality works. These test that when a
  function is run with valid input, the expected output is produced.
- **XXXb:** These tests ensure errors are thrown when invalid input is provided.
- **XXXc:** These tests check for any other expected functionality that is not
  core to a function. For example, one such test may ensure elements can be
  archived, which is not core to the `update()` function.
- **XXXd:** These tests check corner cases.

All tests will begin with a three digit number. The full name of the test,
seen by Mocha, should correspond to the name of the file.

> **How it works:** Mocha tests are a collection of `it` functions wrapped in
> a `describe` function. The first parameter passed to the describe function is
> the test name. We dynamically grab the name of the current file and pass
> that into the describe function. This ensures that the test name as seen by
> Mocha corresponds to the file name containing the test.

These test numbers are used both to uniquely identify the tests and to define
their order of execution.

#### Running Tests

Tests can be run by running the `node mbee test` command. Alternatively, this
can be done by running `node scripts/test`, `yarn run test`, or `npm test`.
Ultimately, this maps to a shell command that runs `mocha` and passes any
command line arguments to Mocha.

To run specific tests, you can pass in a regular expression via Mocha's `--grep`
flag. This regex will run only tests starting with that name. For example:

```bash
node mbee test --grep "^[0-4]"   # Runs tests 000 - 499
node mbee test --grep "^301"     # Runs test 301
node mbee test --grep "^6[0-2]"  # Runs tests 600-629
```

Any other Mocha arguments are valid to pass to the test command.

#### Writing Tests

Tests are written in the form of a *test module* which contains a collection
of tests. The test module must contain a single top-level `describe` function
(see [Mocha's Documentation](https://mochajs.org/#getting-started) for more
detail).

Each test module name should begin with a three-digit number which uniquely
identifies the test and determines the order in which it runs. That module
should be stored in the appropriately numbered directory within the test
directory.

Here are some guidelines for writing unit tests:

1. **Start with expected behavior.** Does the code do what it's supposed to do
when given valid input? Include a few test cases. For example: for a *User*
model. Make sure to add a user, delete a user, modify users, etc.
2. **Hit corner cases.** If there is unusual or unexpected input, make sure to
test it. For example: What if a user has a really long user name or email?
3. **Test invalid input.** Make sure it properly handles invalid input as you
would expect it to. For example: What if you try to add a user with an invalid
name or email? Or, what if you try to add a user that already exists?
4. **Leave the system in the state it started in.** Make sure the test suite
leaves the system in the same state it started in. For example if you added a
project, delete it. This allows unit tests to be written without knowledge of
other test suites or the order of test execution.

## Code Conventions and ESLint

While this isn't strictly a testing topic, it is a good practice that relates to
testing as it helps avoid inconsistencies or problems in the code base. We use
ESLint to maintain certain standards and conventions in our code.

You can start by simply running the linter by running `node mbee lint`. The
rule set for ESLint is defined in the [.eslintrc](.eslintrc) file and aligns with
our style guide.

We also recommend using EditorConfig. The [.editorconfig](.editorconfig) file
in the project's root directory will help enforce some of those style conventions.


