# Database Abstraction
To provide the MBEE Community users with greater modularity, a database
abstraction layer has been created. This layer defines a list of functions and
classes which are required to be implemented in a database strategy. If these
functions and classes are properly implemented, swapping databases should be as
simple as specifying the strategy of choice in the running config.

### Strategy Requirements
Each strategy must implement the list of classes and functions below. If **ANY**
of the functions or classes are not defined, a critical error will be logged to
the console, and the process will be terminated.

##### Functions

* `connect()`

    Opens a connection to the database. The connection should persist until the
    `disconnect()` function is called. Returns an empty promise.
    
* `disconnect()`

    Closes a connection to the database. Returns an empty promise.
    
* `clear()`

    Completely wipes the entire database. All collections, documents, and
    indexes should be deleted. Used in the [000](./test.module_000-init.html)
    and [999](./test.module_999-wrap-up.html) tests. NOTE: These tests should
    never be run in production. Returns an empty promise.
    
* `sanitize(data)`

    Sanitizes database specific key words/characters from user input. Data
    passed into this function will be used in queries and inserted into the
    database, so it is important to sanitize against injections or access to
    incorrect data. Returns the sanitized data.
    
##### Schema Class
A schema defines a template for each document inserted into the database, as
well as any static methods, indexes, validators, or virtuals which may exist. 

* `constructor(definition, options)`

    Creates an instance of a Schema. The definition contains the base schema,
    which details the properties of the document. Each property is an object,
    and has additional parameters which detail that property. The parameters can
    include the type, validator functions, defaults, references to other models,
    enums and booleans for specifying indexes, uniqueness and whether or not the
    property is required.
    
* `add(obj, prefix)`

    Appends an object or schema to the current schema.
    
* `plugin(cb, options)`

    Calls a callback function on the schema. Currently only used to append a
    schema containing shared properties to every schema.
    
* `index(fields, options)`

    Adds an index to the schema. Can add compound or text indexes, depending on
    the content of `fields`. This is one of two ways to define an index, where
    the other is supplying the parameter `index: true` on a property in the
    Schema constructor.
    
* `virtual(name, options)`

    Adds a virtual property to the Schema. Virtuals are fields which are NOT
    stored in the database, and are calculated after the document is found.
    Often times virtuals reference other documents, and will require an
    additional find operation to populate. For example, the virtual field
    `projects` on the organization schema returns all projects which the
    organization contains.
    
* `static(name, fn)`

    Adds a static function to the schema, which will later become a static
    function on the model.
    
    
##### Model Class
A model is used to directly manipulate the database, as well as create any new
documents or indexes. Models are the core pieces of MBEE, and are exported from
all of the files in `app/models`. Models define functions which perform certain
CRUD operations on the database, as well as any methods used for maintaining the
database (i.e. creating indexes).

* `constructor(name, schema, collection)`

    Creates an instance of a Model from the supplied Schema. Should create the
    collection/table in the database, along with any indexes which were
    specified. Returns an instance of a Model. NOTE: the constructor is not
    asynchronous. Any asynchronous operations needed to be performed should be
    added to the `init()` function.
    
* `init()`

    An asynchronous function run on startup of MBEE. Used to perform any async
    operations required for model initialization which could not be performed
    in the Model constructor.
    
* `bulkWrite(ops, options, cb)`

    Performs a large write operation on the database, and allows for multiple
    different operations to occur, including: insertOne, updateOne, deleteOne,
    and deleteMany. Accepts an array of objects, where each object defines one
    of the above operations, and any additional parameters to perform that
    operation. Should return an object containing the results of the operations,
    including the number of each type and overall success.
    
* `countDocuments(filter, cb)`

    Returns the number of documents which match the filter.
    
* `deleteIndex(name)`

    Deletes an index `name` from the collection/table.
    
* `deleteMany(conditions, options, cb)`

    Delete all documents from the collection/table which match the provided
    conditions.
    
* `find(filter, projection, options, cb)`

    Finds multiple documents which match the filter. Only fields specified in
    projection are returned; if null all fields are returned. Supported options
    are sort (order of returned documents), limit, skip (pagination), and 
    populate (virtuals or references only). Find is one of the most used methods
    in the core framework.
    
* `findOne(filter, projection, options, cb)`

    Similar to find, but only returns either a single found document or `null`.
    Only supports the option populate.
    
* `getIndexes()`

    Returns an array of all existing indexes on the collection/table.
    
* `insertMany(docs, options, cb)`

    Inserts the array of documents `docs` into the database. Supports the option
    skipValidation, which optionally allows the caller to skip validating
    documents. If this option is not provided or is false, all documents should
    be validated before inserting into the database.
     
* `updateMany(filter, doc, options, cb)`

    Updates all documents which match the filter, with the changes provided in
    the `doc` parameter.
     
* `updateOne(filter, doc, options, cb)`

    Updates a single document that matches the filter with the changes provided
    in the `doc` parameter.
    
##### Store Class
The Store class is used for session management/storage alongside the library
[express-session](https://github.com/expressjs/session). The Store class
**MUST** extend the built in EventEmitter class, as many of the built in
functions are used by express-session. The store should be able to create, 
retrieve and delete sessions in your database of choice. There are many
supported libraries which handle the store for popular databases, see the link
above for a list of those libraries.

* `constructor(options)`

    Creates an instance of the Store class.
    
* `all(cb)`

    An optional function which retrieves all sessions in the store.
    
* `destory(sid, cb)`

    A **required** function which deletes a session matching the parameter
    `sid`.
    
* `clear(cb)`

    An optional function which deletes all sessions in the store.
    
* `length(cb)`

    An optional function which returns the number of sessions in the store.
    
* `get(sid, cb)`

    A **required** function which gets a session matching the parameter `sid`.
    
* `set(sid, session, cb)`

    A **required** function which creates a session if it doesn't exist,
    otherwise updates it.
    
* `touch(sid, session, cb)`

    An optional (but recommended) function which resets a session's idle timer
    if it is queued for destruction.


    
    

