# User Interface Overview
To augment the robust feature set of MCF, a web interface is provided. 
This is a minimalistic UI to allow users basic functionality (e.g. Admin Console) 
and to perform CRUD operations on organizations, projects, and associated model data.

The UI is compromised mainly of React components, EJS templates, and sass/scss (CSS).
Many of the React components leverage JSX, a XML-like extension to JavaScript.

## Introduction

#### Server Side Rendering
The MCF takes a hybrid approach between a server side rendered multipage 
application and a single page application. This hybrid design was chosen 
because it allows for the design of separate and distinct pages, while still 
supporting the more modern single page application design. The pages which 
are served to a user can either take the form of a server side rendered EJS 
file, or they can utilize React in order to mount a single page application 
to the html file served to users with the MCF. As a result of this design 
decision, multiple single page applications were created specifically for
projects, organizations, the home page, the profile page, and the admin console. 
Each have an EJS file and corresponding React entry point.

#### Build
MCF has been designed to transpile JSX files into plain JavaScript which are 
hosted as static assets. The build.js file found in the `/scripts` directory 
utilizes a bundler known as 'Webpack' with the 'Babel' extension to take care 
of both transpiling and minifying React files. Babel is the compiler for the
JSX files, while Webpack is the module bundler that brings all of the files into 
one place for the code to be read correctly.

React will use webpack to transpile and bundle code using `node mbee build`, 
or it can also be run exclusively using `node mbee build --react`.

## Routes
Routes define the accessible URL endpoints in the UI. Generally, routes are 
only used in parent (or container) components or pages. Due to the implementation
and use of React with EJS templates, there is an important 
distinction to be made between routes defined with Express Router and 
those referenced and used with React Router.

#### Express Routes
Express is solely responsible for backend routes i.e. how the application's 
endpoints respond to client requests (e.g. refreshing a web page). Routes 
defined in the `app/routes.js` file are required to specify the respective 
action to take when that endpoint is accessed. From a UI perspective, this 
calls a function defined within the `app/controllers/ui-controller.js` which 
ultimately calls Express' `res.render` to select the corresponding EJS 
template from `app/views` and inject it into a master `app/views/layout.ejs` 
template. The EJS file that is specified by the `render()` call 
utilizes the layout which automatically configures the banner, navbar, 
and page layout. Additionally, the layout injects dependencies for jQuery, 
Popper, Bootstrap, Font Awesome, and imports the main MCF style sheet. 
This ensures that all pages designed for the MCF will appear uniform and 
will be properly configured. The selected EJS file will be injected where 
the `<%- body %>` tag is in `layout.ejs`.

#### React Routes
The React Router is leveraged throughout the application to navigate to various 
components without reloading and requesting entire pages of the application. 
Typically, these routes are defined in the `Sidebar` component within the 
following components located in the `app/ui/components` directory:

* `admin-console-views/admin-console-home.jsx`
* `org-views/org-home.jsx`
* `profile-views/profile-home.jsx`
* `project-views/project-home.jsx`

Route paths specified within this component pattern match to render the 
appropriate component. As mentioned earlier, this is only requesting information 
the component(s) require via AJAX calls as opposed to requesting an entire page
from the web server.

## Structure
At a high-level, the UI component structure is intended to be organized by pages 
or views that users can navigate to. The top level directory structure of the 
UI is described in the sections below.

##### App
The `/apps` directory contains the "single page application" entry points for 
the following: Admin Console, Home, Nav, Org, Profile, and Project. These 
files are fairly minimal, only importing the main/home page component into the file
 to mount it onto the html element.

##### General
The `/general` directory consists of reusable components. These 
components are not specific to one app and are intended to be "data agnostic", 
by focusing more on the presentation and formatting aspects of the UI.

##### Home Views
Consists of all components that makeup the `home-view` sans list items 
associated with Organizations and Projects.

##### Org Views
The `org-views` directory consists of the main organization pages. These components 
define the general layout and routes for organizations.

##### Project Views
The `project-views` directory contains all the main project pages and components. 
These items define the layout, routes, and structure for project related components.

These views encompass the following project specific components:
* Elements
* Branches/Tags 
* Artifacts
* Search

##### Profile Views
The `profile-views` directory contains components associated with managing 
and interacting with User profiles such as: updating profile information, 
passwords, and permissions.

##### Admin Console
The `admin-console-views` directory encompasses components responsible for rendering
privileged user views along with associated layouts and routes.

##### Shared Views
The `shared-views` directory consists mainly of components that are shared amongst 
the organization, project, branch, artifacts pages. Unlike many of the components
in `/general`, these components are more tightly coupled with the data on their 
respective view (e.g. Org-List is solely responsible for rendering Organization data,
whereas a component residing in `/general` are consider more data agnostic.
